being human we each view ourselves as a
unique and independent individual but
we're never alone millions of
microscopic beings inhabit our bodies
and no two bodies are the same each is a
different habitat for microbial
communities from the arid deserts of our
skin to the villages on our lips and the
cities in our mouths even every tooth is
its own distinctive neighborhood and our
guts are teeming metropolis of
interacting microbes and in these
bustling streets of our guts we see a
constant influx of food and every
microbe has a job to do here's a
celluloid 'ok bacteria for example their
one job is to break down cellulose a
common compound and vegetables into
sugars those simple sugars then move
along to the respirators another set of
microbes that snatch up these simple
sugars and burn them as fuel as food
travels through our digestive tract it
reaches the fermenters who extract
energy from these sugars by converting
them into chemicals like alcohol and
hydrogen gas which they spew out as
waste products deeper in the depths of
our gut city thus in troves eke out a
living off the fermenters trash at each
step of this process energy is released
and that energy is absorbed by the cells
of the digestive tract this city we just
saw is different in everyone every
person has a unique and diverse
community of gut microbes that can
process food in different ways one
person's gut microbes may be capable of
releasing only a fraction of the
calories that another person's gut
microbes can extract so what determines
the membership of our gut microbial
community well things like our genetic
makeup and the microbes we encounter
throughout our lives can contribute to
our microbial ecosystems the food we eat
also influences which microbes live in
our gut
for example food made of complex
molecules like an apple requires a lot
of different microbial workers to break
it down but if a food is made of simple
molecules like a lollipop some of these
workers are put out of a job those
workers leave the city never to return
what doesn't function well our gut
microbial communities with only a few
different types of workers for example
humans who suffer from diseases like
diabetes or chronic gut inflammation
typically have less microbial variety in
their guts we don't fully understand the
best way to manage our individual
microbial societies but it is likely
that lifestyle changes such as eating a
varied diet of complex plant-based foods
can help revitalize our microbial
ecosystems in our gut and across the
entire landscape of our body so we are
really not alone in our body our bodies
our homes to millions of different
microbes and we need them just as much
as they need us as we learn more about
how our microbes interact with each
other and with our bodies we will reveal
how we can nurture this complex
invisible world that shapes our personal
identity our health and our well-being
Oh